[MUSIC]
We often talk about two distinct tasks,
policy evaluation and control.
Policy evaluation is the task of
determining the value function for
a specific policy.
Control is the task of finding a policy
to obtain as much reward as possible.
In other words, finding a policy
which maximizes the value function.
Control is the ultimate goal
of reinforcement learning.
But the task of policy evaluation
is usually a necessary first step.
It's hard to improve our policy if we
don't have a way to assess how good it is.
This week, we will look at a collection of
algorithms called dynamic programming for
solving both policy evaluation and
control problems.
[SOUND] By the end of this video you will
be able to understand the distinction
between policy evaluation and control,
and explain the setting in which
dynamic programming can be applied
as well as its limitations.
Dynamic programming algorithms use
the Bellman equations to define iterative
algorithms for
both policy evaluation and control.
But before diving into
the details of this approach,
let's take some time to
clarify the two tasks.
[SOUND] Imagine someone
hands you a policy and
your job is to determine
how good that policy is.
Policy evaluation is the task of
determining the state value function v pi
for a particular policy pi.
Recall that the value of
a state under a policy pi
is the expected return from that
state if we act according to pi.
The return is itself a discounted
sum of future rewards.
[SOUND] We have seen how the Bellman
equation reduces the problem of
finding v pi to a system of linear
equations, one equation for each state.
So the problem of policy evaluation
reduces to solving this system
of linear equations.
In principle,
we could approach this task with
a variety of methods from linear algebra.
In practice, the iterative solution
methods of dynamic programming
are more suitable for general MDPs.
[SOUND] Control is the task
of improving a policy.
Recall that a policy pi2
is considered as good as or
better than pi1 if the value
under pi2 is greater than or
equal to the value under
pi1 in every state.
We say pi2 is strictly better
than pi1 if pi2 is as good as or
better than pi1 and there's at least
one state where the value under pi2
is strictly greater than
the value under pi1.
The goal of the control
task is to modify a policy
to produce a new one
which is strictly better.
Moreover, we can try to
improve the policy repeatedly
to obtain a sequence of better and
better policies.
When this is no longer possible,
it means there is no policy which is
strictly better than the current policy.
And so the current policy must
be equal to an optimal policy.
And we can consider
the control task complete.
[SOUND] Imagine we had access to
the dynamics of the environment, p.
This week is all about how we can use this
knowledge to solve the tasks of policy
evaluation and control.
Even with access to these dynamics,
we'll need careful thought and
clever algorithms to compute value
functions and optimal policies.
For the next several videos, we will
investigate a class of solution methods
called dynamic programming for
this purpose.
Dynamic programming uses the various
Bellman equations we've seen,
along with knowledge of p, to work out
value functions and optimal policies.
Classical dynamic programming does not
involve interaction with the environment
at all.
Instead, we use dynamic programming
methods to compute value functions and
optimal policies given a model of the MDP.
Nonetheless, dynamic
programming is very useful for
understanding other reinforced
learning algorithms.
Most reinforced learning algorithms can
be seen as an approximation to dynamic
programming without the model.
This connection is perhaps most striking
in the temporal different space dynamic
planning algorithm that
we cover in course two.
We will revisit these connections
throughout this specialization.
[SOUND] To summarize,
policy evaluation is the task
of determining the state value
function v pi for policy pi.
Control is the task of
improving an existing policy.
And dynamic programming techniques can
be used to solve both of these tasks
if we have access to
the dynamics function p.
See you next time, where we will learn
how to use dynamic programming for
policy evaluation.